Support "include" inside view statements?

Provide sample configuration files (root.hint, localhost.rev...)

Disable journalling for persistent databases (disable initial load,
journalling, etc)

Review man pages

write named.conf(5) man page

Complete OMAPI security review

Complete server input code path security review
     message.c, tcpmsg.c + places where tcpmsg.c functionality is duplicated,
     request.c

Review lwres input code path for buffer overflows

Document function REQUIREs in omapi and parser

Make the configure script detect systems with insufficient threads support

Implement statistics similar to those in BIND 8

Write libdns overview document (even if it only says "don't use
libdns")

Check whether our NAPTR implementation conforms to RFC2915

Improve these error messages:
  rndc: operation failed: verify failure (failed to verify signature)
  rndc: reload command failure: verify failure

Do something about the commented-out interface scanning code in
getaddrinfo()

Add a built-in localhost zone feature

Mark says we should check that a partial rrset dynamic
update will cause the resulting full rrset to have the
new ttl, and check that RFC2136 actually says this

Implement rrset-order (partially).  Mark says rrset-order is
applied first, sortlist last.

Support long command line options

Come up with a way of converting the XML docs to plain text

Add support for cross-zone glue

mark: explain "database file older than last load"

Review the use of debug levels and make it more consistent

Add configuration option for generating IXFRs by calculating the
difference between two zone versions (most of the code is already
there)

Examine why aa:/usr/var/adm/syslog.dated/22-May-17:37/daemon.log has:
  May 23 08:19:58 aa named[24603]: starting BIND 9.0.0b3
  May 23 08:19:58 aa syslog: loading configuration from '/build/gson/local/namedb
(why named then syslog?)

Define easy-to-parse subset of master file format and make dig support
it; make that the recommended way of exporting zone data.

Support general time specifiers like "4d10m" in named.conf

Implement "additional data max/min/internal" 
(whatever that means)

Stomp error memory leaks

Check for things still being logged with printf
 
Avoid ADB negative caching if an ADB-originated fetch fails due to a local
resource problem (e.g. ISC_R_NOMEMORY or ISC_R_QUOTA).

Write a paper on the flaws of DNSSEC

Improve logging infrastructure to simplify providing context
information

Use zone logging function in dynamic update logging

Decide on one set of CHECK()/RETERR() macros and put it in a common
header file

Set up interoperability test server

Replace the calls to qsort() with a merge sort to avoid potential
stack overflow

Choose ixfr/axfr depending on zone/diff size

dns_db_createsoatuple -> journal_ ?

Support $DATE fully

Look at all the XXXes in the code

Persistent cache option

Implement diagnostic dumping of databases

From the old TODO file at the top of the source tree:

  1.	  Rdataset/Rdatalist Union
  3.      Finish mempool conversion of message.c
  5.      isc/util.h publish or perish
  8.      Check base 64 code; does it have the problems that
	  the BIND 8 code does?
  9.      Authority is optional if we have answers?
  11.     KEY duplication (answer + additional) in any query
  12.     Fix rdata META flag to be set for TSIG, TKEY, OPT
  13.     Intergrate (replace?) old per zone SOA timers with zomemgr
  14.     RWlock for zonemgr zone list
  15.     CHAOS A's
  16.     implement "doc" checks out of zonemgr.

